<!--- GENERATED BY gomplate from scripts/docs/monitor-page.md.tmpl --->

# collectd/interface

Collectd stats about network interfaces on the
system by using the [collectd interface
plugin](https://collectd.org/wiki/index.php/Plugin:Interface).

See the [integrations
doc](https://github.com/signalfx/integrations/tree/master/collectd-interface)
for more information.


Monitor Type: `collectd/interface`

[Monitor Source Code](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/tree/master/internal/monitors/collectd/netinterface)

**Accepts Endpoints**: No

**Multiple Instances Allowed**: **No**

## Configuration

**For a list of monitor options that are common to all monitors, see [Common
Configuration](../monitor-config.md#common-configuration).**


This monitor has no configuration options.
## Metrics

The following table lists the metrics available for this monitor.
Metrics that are categorized as [container/host/bundled](https://docs.signalfx.com/en/latest/admin-guide/usage.html#about-custom-bundled-and-high-resolution-metrics)
are marked as _Default_ in the table below.

| Name | Type | [Default](https://docs.signalfx.com/en/latest/admin-guide/usage.html#about-custom-bundled-and-high-resolution-metrics) | Description |
| ---  | ---  | ---    | ---         |
| `if_dropped.rx` | cumulative |  | Count of received packets dropped by the interface |
| `if_dropped.tx` | cumulative |  | Count of transmitted packets dropped by the interface |
| `if_errors.rx` | cumulative | ✔ | Count of receive errors on the interface |
| `if_errors.tx` | cumulative | ✔ | Count of transmit errors on the interface |
| `if_octets.rx` | cumulative | ✔ | Count of bytes (octets) received on the interface |
| `if_octets.tx` | cumulative | ✔ | Count of bytes (octets) transmitted by the interface |
| `if_packets.rx` | cumulative |  | Count of packets received on the interface |
| `if_packets.tx` | cumulative |  | Count of packets transmitted by the interface |



This monitor does not send all metrics by default.  The metrics that are
emitted without any non-required config options set are marked under the
_Default_ column of the table above.

### Non-default metrics (version 4.7.0+)

**The following information applies to the agent version 4.7.0+ and has
`enableBuiltInFiltering: true` set on the top level of the agent config and
also any references to `whitelist.json` removed from `metricsToExclude` at the
top-level of the agent config.**

To emit metrics that are not _default_, you can add those metrics in the
generic monitor-level `extraMetrics` config option.  Metrics that are derived
from specific configuration options that do not appear in the above table do
not need to be added to `extraMetrics`.

To see a list of metrics that will be emitted you can run `agent-status
monitors` after configuring this monitor in a running agent instance.



### Legacy non-default metrics (version < 4.7.0)

**The following information only applies to agent version older than 4.7.0. If
you have a newer agent and have set `enableBuiltInFiltering: true` at the top
level of your agent config, see the section above. See upgrade instructions in
[Old-style whitelist filtering](../legacy-filtering.md#old-style-whitelist-filtering).**

If you have a reference to the `whitelist.json` in your agent's top-level
`metricsToExclude` config option, and you want to emit metrics that are not in
that whitelist, then you need to add an item to the top-level
`metricsToInclude` config option to override that whitelist (see [Inclusion
filtering](../legacy-filtering.md#inclusion-filtering).  Or you can just
copy the whitelist.json, modify it, and reference that in `metricsToExclude`.



