<!--- GENERATED BY gomplate from scripts/docs/monitor-page.md.tmpl --->

# collectd/df

Tracks free disk space on the host.


Monitor Type: `collectd/df`

[Monitor Source Code](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/tree/master/internal/monitors/collectd/df)

**Accepts Endpoints**: No

**Multiple Instances Allowed**: **No**

## Configuration

**For a list of monitor options that are common to all monitors, see [Common
Configuration](../monitor-config.md#common-configuration).**


| Config option | Required | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `hostFSPath` | no | `string` | Path to the root of the host filesystem.  Useful when running in a container and the host filesystem is mounted in some subdirectory under /. |
| `ignoreSelected` | no | `bool` | If true, the filesystems selected by `fsTypes` and `mountPoints` will be excluded and all others included. (**default:** `true`) |
| `fsTypes` | no | `list of strings` | The filesystem types to include/exclude. (**default:** `[aufs overlay tmpfs proc sysfs nsfs cgroup devpts selinuxfs devtmpfs debugfs mqueue hugetlbfs securityfs pstore binfmt_misc autofs]`) |
| `mountPoints` | no | `list of strings` | The mount paths to include/exclude, is interpreted as a regex if surrounded by `/`.  Note that you need to include the full path as the agent will see it, irrespective of the hostFSPath option. (**default:** `[/^/var/lib/docker/containers/ /^/var/lib/rkt/pods/ /^/net// /^/smb//]`) |
| `reportByDevice` | no | `bool` |  (**default:** `false`) |
| `reportInodes` | no | `bool` |  (**default:** `false`) |
| `valuesPercentage` | no | `bool` | If true percent based metrics will be reported. (**default:** `false`) |


## Metrics

These are the metrics available for this monitor.
Metrics that are categorized as
[container/host](https://docs.signalfx.com/en/latest/admin-guide/usage.html#about-custom-bundled-and-high-resolution-metrics)
(*default*) are ***in bold and italics*** in the list below.


 - ***`df_complex.free`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Free disk space in bytes
 - `df_complex.reserved` (*gauge*)<br>    Reserved disk space in bytes
 - ***`df_complex.used`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Used disk space in bytes
 - `percent_inodes.free` (*gauge*)<br>    Free inodes on the file system, expressed as a percentage.
 - `percent_inodes.reserved` (*gauge*)<br>    Reserved inodes on the file system, expressed as a percentage.
 - `percent_inodes.used` (*gauge*)<br>    Used inodes on the file system, expressed as a percentage.

#### Group inodes
All of the following metrics are part of the `inodes` metric group. All of
the non-default metrics below can be turned on by adding `inodes` to the
monitor config option `extraGroups`:
 - `df_inodes.free` (*gauge*)<br>    Number of inodes that are free.
 - `df_inodes.reserved` (*gauge*)<br>    Number of inodes reserved for the super user.
 - `df_inodes.used` (*gauge*)<br>    Number of inodes that are used.

#### Group percentage
All of the following metrics are part of the `percentage` metric group. All of
the non-default metrics below can be turned on by adding `percentage` to the
monitor config option `extraGroups`:
 - `percent_bytes.free` (*gauge*)<br>    Free disk space on the file system, expressed as a percentage.
 - `percent_bytes.reserved` (*gauge*)<br>    Reserved disk space on the filesystem, expressed as a percentage.
 - `percent_bytes.used` (*gauge*)<br>    Used disk space on the file system, expressed as a percentage.

### Non-default metrics (version 4.7.0+)

**The following information applies to the agent version 4.7.0+ that has
`enableBuiltInFiltering: true` set on the top level of the agent config.**

To emit metrics that are not _default_, you can add those metrics in the
generic monitor-level `extraMetrics` config option.  Metrics that are derived
from specific configuration options that do not appear in the above list of
metrics do not need to be added to `extraMetrics`.

To see a list of metrics that will be emitted you can run `agent-status
monitors` after configuring this monitor in a running agent instance.

### Legacy non-default metrics (version < 4.7.0)

**The following information only applies to agent version older than 4.7.0. If
you have a newer agent and have set `enableBuiltInFiltering: true` at the top
level of your agent config, see the section above. See upgrade instructions in
[Old-style whitelist filtering](../legacy-filtering.md#old-style-whitelist-filtering).**

If you have a reference to the `whitelist.json` in your agent's top-level
`metricsToExclude` config option, and you want to emit metrics that are not in
that whitelist, then you need to add an item to the top-level
`metricsToInclude` config option to override that whitelist (see [Inclusion
filtering](../legacy-filtering.md#inclusion-filtering).  Or you can just
copy the whitelist.json, modify it, and reference that in `metricsToExclude`.



