<!--- GENERATED BY gomplate from scripts/docs/monitor-page.md.tmpl --->

# collectd/vmem

Collects information about the virtual memory
subsystem of the kernel using the [collectd vmem
plugin](https://collectd.org/wiki/index.php/Plugin:vmem).  There is no
configuration available for this plugin.


Monitor Type: `collectd/vmem`

[Monitor Source Code](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/tree/master/internal/monitors/collectd/vmem)

**Accepts Endpoints**: No

**Multiple Instances Allowed**: **No**

## Configuration

**For a list of monitor options that are common to all monitors, see [Common
Configuration](../monitor-config.md#common-configuration).**


This monitor has no configuration options.
## Metrics

The following table lists the metrics available for this monitor.
Metrics that are categorized as [container/host/bundled](https://docs.signalfx.com/en/latest/admin-guide/usage.html#about-custom-bundled-and-high-resolution-metrics)
are marked as _Default_ in the table below.

| Name | Type | [Default](https://docs.signalfx.com/en/latest/admin-guide/usage.html#about-custom-bundled-and-high-resolution-metrics) | Description |
| ---  | ---  | ---    | ---         |
| `vmpage_faults.majflt` | cumulative |  | Number of major page faults on the system |
| `vmpage_faults.minflt` | cumulative |  | Number of minor page faults on the system |
| `vmpage_io.memory.in` | cumulative |  | Page Ins for Memory |
| `vmpage_io.memory.out` | cumulative |  | Page Outs for Memory |
| `vmpage_io.swap.in` | cumulative | ✔ | Page Ins for Swap |
| `vmpage_io.swap.out` | cumulative | ✔ | Page Outs for Swap |
| `vmpage_number.free_pages` | cumulative |  | Number of free memory pages |
| `vmpage_number.mapped` | cumulative |  | Number of mapped pages |
| `vmpage_number.shmem_pmdmapped` | gauge |  | The amount of shared (shmem/tmpfs) memory backed by huge pages |



This monitor does not send all metrics by default.  The metrics that are
emitted without any non-required config options set are marked under the
_Default_ column of the table above.

### Non-default metrics (version 4.7.0+)

**The following information applies to the agent version 4.7.0+ and has
`enableBuiltInFiltering: true` set on the top level of the agent config and
also any references to `whitelist.json` removed from `metricsToExclude` at the
top-level of the agent config.**

To emit metrics that are not _default_, you can add those metrics in the
generic monitor-level `extraMetrics` config option.  Metrics that are derived
from specific configuration options that do not appear in the above table do
not need to be added to `extraMetrics`.

To see a list of metrics that will be emitted you can run `agent-status
monitors` after configuring this monitor in a running agent instance.



### Legacy non-default metrics (version < 4.7.0)

**The following information only applies to agent version older than 4.7.0. If
you have a newer agent and have set `enableBuiltInFiltering: true` at the top
level of your agent config, see the section above. See upgrade instructions in
[Old-style whitelist filtering](../legacy-filtering.md#old-style-whitelist-filtering).**

If you have a reference to the `whitelist.json` in your agent's top-level
`metricsToExclude` config option, and you want to emit metrics that are not in
that whitelist, then you need to add an item to the top-level
`metricsToInclude` config option to override that whitelist (see [Inclusion
filtering](../legacy-filtering.md#inclusion-filtering).  Or you can just
copy the whitelist.json, modify it, and reference that in `metricsToExclude`.



