<!--- GENERATED BY gomplate from scripts/docs/templates/monitor-page.md.tmpl --->

# cpu

Monitor Type: `cpu` ([Source](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/tree/master/pkg/monitors/cpu))

**Accepts Endpoints**: No

**Multiple Instances Allowed**: **No**

## Overview

This monitor reports cpu metrics.

On Linux hosts, this monitor relies on the `/proc` filesystem.
If the underlying host's `/proc` file system is mounted somewhere other than
/proc please specify the path using the top level configuration `procPath`.

```yaml
procPath: /proc
monitors:
 - type: cpu
```


## Configuration

To activate this monitor in the Smart Agent, add the following to your
agent config:

```
monitors:  # All monitor config goes under this key
 - type: cpu
   ...  # Additional config
```

**For a list of monitor options that are common to all monitors, see [Common
Configuration](../monitor-config.md#common-configuration).**


This monitor has no configuration options.
## Metrics

These are the metrics available for this monitor.
Metrics that are categorized as
[container/host](https://docs.signalfx.com/en/latest/admin-guide/usage.html#about-custom-bundled-and-high-resolution-metrics)
(*default*) are ***in bold and italics*** in the list below.


 - ***`cpu.utilization`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Percent of CPU used on this host. This metric is emitted with a plugin dimension set to "signalfx-metadata".

#### Group per_core
All of the following metrics are part of the `per_core` metric group. All of
the non-default metrics below can be turned on by adding `per_core` to the
monitor config option `extraGroups`:
 - `cpu.utilization_per_core` (*gauge*)<br>    Percent of CPU used on each core. This metric is emitted with the plugin dimension set to "signalfx-metadata"

### Non-default metrics (version 4.7.0+)

To emit metrics that are not _default_, you can add those metrics in the
generic monitor-level `extraMetrics` config option.  Metrics that are derived
from specific configuration options that do not appear in the above list of
metrics do not need to be added to `extraMetrics`.

To see a list of metrics that will be emitted you can run `agent-status
monitors` after configuring this monitor in a running agent instance.



