<!--- GENERATED BY gomplate from scripts/docs/templates/monitor-page.md.tmpl --->

# http

Monitor Type: `http` ([Source](https://github.com/signalfx/signalfx-agent/tree/master/pkg/monitors/http))

**Accepts Endpoints**: No

**Multiple Instances Allowed**: Yes

## Overview

Monitors tests http endpoints and tls validity. 


## Configuration

To activate this monitor in the Smart Agent, add the following to your
agent config:

```
monitors:  # All monitor config goes under this key
 - type: http
   ...  # Additional config
```

**For a list of monitor options that are common to all monitors, see [Common
Configuration](../monitor-config.md#common-configuration).**


| Config option | Required | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `body` | no | `string` |  |
| `followRedirects` | no | `bool` |  (**default:** `true`) |
| `headers` | no | `map of strings` |  |
| `method` | no | `string` |  (**default:** `GET`) |
| `timeout` | no | `integer` |  (**default:** `5`) |
| `urls` | no | `list of strings` |  |
| `regex` | no | `string` |  |


## Metrics

These are the metrics available for this monitor.
Metrics that are categorized as
[container/host](https://docs.signalfx.com/en/latest/admin-guide/usage.html#about-custom-bundled-and-high-resolution-metrics)
(*default*) are ***in bold and italics*** in the list below.


 - ***`http.certificate_expiration`*** (*gauge*)<br>    TLS expiration in seconds.
 - ***`http.certificate_valid`*** (*gauge*)<br>    TLS certificate is valid if 1.
 - ***`http.content_length`*** (*gauge*)<br>    HTTP response content length.
 - ***`http.regex_match`*** (*gauge*)<br>    Response match regex expression if 1.
 - ***`http.response_time`*** (*gauge*)<br>    HTTP response time.
 - ***`http.status_code`*** (*gauge*)<br>    HTTP response status code.

### Non-default metrics (version 4.7.0+)

To emit metrics that are not _default_, you can add those metrics in the
generic monitor-level `extraMetrics` config option.  Metrics that are derived
from specific configuration options that do not appear in the above list of
metrics do not need to be added to `extraMetrics`.

To see a list of metrics that will be emitted you can run `agent-status
monitors` after configuring this monitor in a running agent instance.



